Altering Clock Regulations (#1076)
thewca/wca-regulations: wca-regulations.md

    - 3h2) Puzzles whose colored plastic is visible inside the puzzle (e.g. "stickerless" puzzles) are permitted. This does not include the following puzzles:
        - 3h2a) Puzzles with transparent parts that can reveal more information about the state of the puzzle. Exception: An overlay sticker or a logo (see [Regulation 3l](regulations:regulation:3l)).
    - 3h3) Any modifications to a puzzle that result in poor performance by a competitor are not grounds for additional attempts.
    - 3h4) For Clock, the following modifications are permitted:

>         - 3h4a) Customs "inserts" (the same shape and size as the traditional paper inserts) are permitted, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate. The inserts must have a clear indication of 12 o'clock that matches the original inserts.

Reviewer: The wording of this regulation assumes what traditional paper inserts are. Specifically, It would seem something like the Angstrom Clock would not be allowed due to the different shape of the insert. https://www.thecubicle.com/products/angstrom-temporus-clock

Author: Hey Jacob, 3h4a is basically the current 3h4 reorganized, so I don't see any problem on allowing something that is currently allowed

>         - 3h4b) Puzzle design customizations that do not give an unfair advantage may be permitted, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate (e.g. checkerboard pattern clocks, faces with a custom design).

Reviewer: There are modifications that give advantages similar to these in nature. What comes to mind is putting tape on the sides of the puzzle to hold it together + make the clock stand up straight instead of tilting, similar to how the Angstrom will stand up straight due to straight edges. Would this regulation disallow these being used?

Author: I wouldn't consider that unfair advantage, but I recognize it can be ambiguous

Author: Maybe a clarification telling that this is not prohibited would be fine, do you agree?

Reviewer 2: another example would be a top row of dials having a different plastic color than the other dials. There are a few different ways that similar things can be done so I believe that wording the guideline in a way that states that any modifications allowing competitors to more easily recognize puzzle orientation should not be considered an unfair advantage, a second guideline giving an specific example like the tape example that Jacob gave or the dial example that I gave could also be a helpful addition.

>         - 3h4b) Puzzle design customizations that do not give an unfair advantage may be permitted, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate (e.g. checkerboard pattern clocks, faces with a custom design).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - 3h4b) Puzzle design customizations that do not give an unfair advantage may be permitted, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate (e.g. checkerboard pattern clocks, faces with a custom design, tape on the side of the clock).
```

>         - 3h4c) Customizations in which pins may be distinguishable from any other pin of the same side are permitted under the discretion of the WCA Delegate.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - 3h4c) Customizations which distinguish pins from other pins of the same side are permitted, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate.
```

>         - 3h4d) Logos anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces remain uncovered.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - 3h4d) Logos anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces remain uncovered.
    - 3h5) Customizations that leave the pins loose (i.e. pins that can toggle or recede using gravity instead of being directly pressed) are not considered reasonable wear, and these puzzles must not be permitted.
```

>         - 3h4d) Logos anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces remain uncovered.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - 3h4d) Logos anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces remain uncovered.
    - 3h5) Customizations that leave the pins loose (i.e. pins that can toggle or recede using gravity instead of being directly pressed) are not considered reasonable wear, and these puzzles must not be permitted.
```

Reviewer 3: this suggested change will cause an error but I will fix this later

>         - 3h4d) Customizations that leave the pins loose (i.e. pins that can toggle or recede using gravity instead of being directly pressed are not considered reasonable wear, and these puzzles must not be permitted)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - 3h4d) Customizations that leave the pins loose (i.e. pins that can toggle or recede using gravity instead of being directly pressed are not considered reasonable wear, and these puzzles must not be permitted)
        - 3h4e) Logos anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces remain uncovered.
```

Author: For Clock, the logo may be anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces remain uncovered.

    - 3h2) Puzzles whose colored plastic is visible inside the puzzle (e.g. "stickerless" puzzles) are permitted. This does not include the following puzzles:
        - 3h2a) Puzzles with transparent parts that can reveal more information about the state of the puzzle. Exception: An overlay sticker or a logo (see [Regulation 3l](regulations:regulation:3l)).
    - 3h3) Any modifications to a puzzle that result in poor performance by a competitor are not grounds for additional attempts.
    - 3h4) For Clock, the following modifications are permitted:
        - 3h4a) Customs "inserts" (the same shape and size as the traditional paper inserts) are permitted, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate. The inserts must have a clear indication of 12 o'clock that matches the original inserts.
        - 3h4b) Puzzle design customizations that do not give an unfair advantage may be permitted, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate (e.g. checkerboard pattern clocks, faces with a custom design, tape on the side of the clock).
        - 3h4c) Customizations in which pins may be distinguishable from any other pin of the same side are permitted under the discretion of the WCA Delegate.

>         - 3h4d) Customizations that leave the pins loose (i.e. pins that can toggle or recede using gravity instead of being directly pressed are not considered reasonable wear, and these puzzles must not be permitted)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 5: A full stop is missing.

>     - 3h5) Customizations that leave the pins loose (i.e. pins that can toggle or recede using gravity instead of being directly pressed) are not considered reasonable wear, and these puzzles must not be permitted.

Reviewer 2: Specifying “customizations” seems rather odd in this case as most of the time that I have seen this happen it has been from wear of the puzzle. Perhaps something more similar to 3j1+ would be better?

>     - 3h5) Customizations that leave the pins loose (i.e. pins that can toggle or recede using gravity instead of being directly pressed) are not considered reasonable wear, and these puzzles must not be permitted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - 3h5) On Clock, loose pins (i.e. pins that can toggle or recede using gravity instead of being directly pressed) are not considered reasonable wear, and these puzzles must not be permitted.
```

>         - 3h4e) Logos anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces remain uncovered.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - 3h4d) Logos anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces remain uncovered.
```

    - 3l1) The logo must be placed on a center piece. Exceptions for puzzles that do not have center pieces:
        - 3l1a) For Pyraminx and 2x2x2, the logo may be on any piece.
        - 3l1b) For Square-1, the logo must be on a piece in the equatorial slice.

>         - 3l1c) For Clock, the logo may be anywhere on the puzzle, as long as the inner clock faces and the 12 o'clock mark remain uncovered.

Reviewer 5: As it's covered by #1072, I think this line should be removed from this PR.

- 4f) Competition scramble sequences must be generated using a current official version of an official WCA scramble program (available [via the WCA website](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/regulations/scrambles/)).
- 4g) After scrambling a puzzle, the scrambler must verify that the puzzle is scrambled correctly. If the puzzle state is wrong, the scrambler must correct it (e.g. by solving the puzzle and applying the scramble sequence again).
    - 4g1) Exception: For the 6x6x6 Cube, 7x7x7 Cube, and Megaminx, it is not necessary to correct the puzzle state, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate.

>     - 4g2) Exception: For Clock, if the state of the pins is affected during transportation or uncovering, it is not necessary to correct the pins, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate.

Reviewer 5: Covered by #1070.

## <article-F><clock><clocksolving> Article F: Clock Solving

- F1) Standard speed solving procedures are followed, as described in [Article A](regulations:article:A) (Speed Solving). Additional regulations that supersede the corresponding procedures in [Article A](regulations:article:A) are described below.
    - F1a) The judges places the scrambled puzzle onto the mat in a standing postiion.
        - F1a1) If, during the transportation phase or while placing the puzzle cover on the table, one or more of the pins have their state affected, the competitor may proceed with the attempt and, after finishing the solve, alongside with the judge, explain the situation to the WCA Delegate. If the WCA Delegate beleives that the competitor did not gain an unfair advantage, they may allow the result to stand under their discretion.
        - F1a2) The organization team may enforce using a stand for the puzzle to prevent it from falling before the start of the attempt. If such stands are used, the organization team should make an announcement before the round starts.

>             - F1a2a) The judge must remove the stand from the mat immediately after the competitor removes the puzzle from it.

Reviewer 5: Why not to leave the numbering the same and just add this F1a1 as F2b? F1a2a just really looks too long and doesn't follow this recommendation from the style guide:

>Conservative levels of indentation (at most three in the Regulations and Guidelines).

Author: I've made the numbering changes mainly to fit the same style as the other lettered-articles, but now it just feels dumb...

Reviewer 5: I think this inconsistency is fine, there are just too much sub-regs to change it IMO.

Author: Just changed it

- F2) The judge places the scrambled puzzle onto the mat in a standing position.
    - F2a) The organization team may enforce using a stand for the puzzle to prevent it from falling before the start of the attempt. If such stands are used, the organization team should make an announcement before the round starts.
        - F2a1) The judge must remove the stand from the mat immediately after the competitor removes the puzzle from it.

>     - F2b) If, during the transportation phase or while placing the puzzle cover on the table, one or more of the pins have their state affected, the competitor may proceed with the attempt and, after finishing the solve, alongside with the judge, explain the situation to the WCA Delegate. If the WCA Delegate beleives that the competitor did not gain an unfair advantage, they may allow the result to stand under their discretion.

Reviewer: I think it would be beneficial for Delegates and competitors to see the Clarification F1a1+++ in this regulation (That an extra should be given if the competitor sees the puzzle). The way the regulation is currently worded, it may cause some confusion and judges / competitors may allow the attempt to continue and proceed even if the competitor saw the physical puzzle.

It would also be beneficial to define the case where the puzzle falls over during inspection (ie after the cover is lifted) as some may try to apply this regulation to that case, which would not be correct.

Reviewer 2: This last sentence of this regulation seems to vary a bit from other regulations that involve delegate discretion. Perhaps something like the following would fit better?

‘The result may stand if the competitor did not gain an unfair advantage, at the discretion of the WCA Delegate.’

>     - F2b) If, during the transportation phase or while placing the puzzle cover on the table, one or more of the pins have their state affected, the competitor may proceed with the attempt and, after finishing the solve, alongside with the judge, explain the situation to the WCA Delegate. If the WCA Delegate beleives that the competitor did not gain an unfair advantage, they may allow the result to stand under their discretion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - F2b) If, during the transportation phase or while placing the puzzle cover on the table, one or more of the pins have their state affected, the competitor may proceed with the attempt and, after finishing the solve, alongside with the judge, explain the situation to the WCA Delegate (see [Guideline F1a1+++](guidelines:guideline:F1a1+++)). If the WCA Delegate believes that the competitor did not gain an unfair advantage, they may allow the result to stand under their discretion.
```

>     - F2b) If, during the transportation phase or while placing the puzzle cover on the table, one or more of the pins have their state affected, the competitor may proceed with the attempt and, after finishing the solve, alongside with the judge, explain the situation to the WCA Delegate (see [Guideline F1a1+++](guidelines:guideline:F1a1+++)). If the WCA Delegate believes that the competitor did not gain an unfair advantage, they may allow the result to stand under their discretion.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - F2b) If the state of one or more of the pins is affected during the transportation phase or while placing the puzzle cover on the table, the competitor may proceed with the attempt and, after finishing the solve, alongside with the judge, explain the situation to the WCA Delegate (see [Guideline F1a1+++](guidelines:guideline:F1a1+++)). If the WCA Delegate believes that the competitor did not gain an unfair advantage, they may allow the result to stand under their discretion.
```

Reviewer 3: I don't actually think F2b is necessary because of #1070 
```suggestion
```
